I'd like to take you back about seven
years in my life Friday afternoon a few
days before Christmas 2009 I was the
director of operations at a consumer
products company in San Francisco and I
was called into a meeting that was
already in progress that meeting turned
out to be my exit interview I was fired
along with several others I was 64 years
old at the time it wasn't completely
unexpected
I signed the stack of papers gathered my
personal effects and left to join my
wife who was waiting for me at a nearby
restaurant completely unaware fast
forward several hours we both got really
silly drunk so 40 plus years of
continuous employment for a variety of
companies large and small was over I had
a good Network a good reputation I
thought I'd be just fine
I was an engineer in manufacturing and
packaging I had a good background
retirement was like for so many people
simply not an option for me so I turned
to consulting for the next couple of
years without any passion whatsoever and
and then an idea began to take root born
from my concern for our environment I
wanted to build my own business
designing and manufacturing
biodegradable packaging from waste paper
agricultural even textile waste
replacing the toxic disposable plastic
packaging to which we've all become
addicted this is called clean technology
and it felt really meaningful to me
a venture that could help to reduce the
billions of pounds of single-use plastic
packaging dumped each year and polluting
our land or rivers and our oceans and
left for future general
patience to resolve our grandchildren my
grandchildren and so now at the age of
66 with 40 years of experience I became
an entrepreneur for the very first time
[Applause]
but there's more lots of issues to deal
with manufacturing outsourcing job
creation patents partnerships funding
these are all typical issues for a
start-up but hardly typical for me and a
word about funding I live and work in
San Francisco and if you're looking for
funding you are typically going to
compete with some very young people from
the high tech industry and it can be
very discouraging and intimidating I
have shoes older than most of these
people we do but five years later I'm
thrilled and proud to share with you
that our revenues have doubled every
year we have no debt we have several
marquee clients our patent was issued I
have a wonderful partner who's been with
me right from the beginning and we've
won more than 20 awards for the work
that we've done but best of all we've
made a small dent a very small dent in
the worldwide plastic pollution crisis
and and I am doing the most rewarding
and meaningful work of my life right now
and I can tell you there's lots of
resources available to entrepreneurs of
all ages well what I really yearned for
five years ago was to find other
first-time entrepreneurs who were my age
I wanted to connect with them
I had no role models absolutely none
that twenty-something app developed for
from Silicon Valley was not my role
model
I'm sure he was very clever I want to do
something about that and I want all of
us to do something about that I want us
to start talking more about people who
don't become entrepreneurs until they
are seniors talking about these bold men
and women who are checking in when their
peers in essence are checking out and
then connecting all these people across
industries across regions across
countries building a community you know
the Small Business Administration tells
us that 64% of new jobs created in the
private sector in the USA are thanks to
small businesses like mine and who's to
say that we'll stay forever small we
have an interesting culture that really
expects when you reach a certain age
you're going to be golfing or playing
checkers or babysitting the grandkids
all the time and I adore my
grandchildren and I'm also passionate
about doing something meaningful in the
global marketplace and I'm going to have
lots of company
the Census Bureau says that by 2050
there will be 84 million seniors in this
country that it's an amazing number
that's almost twice as many as we have
today can you imagine how many
first-time entrepreneurs there will be
among 84 million people and they'll all
have four decades of experience so when
when I say let's start talking more
about these wonderful entrepreneurs yeah
I mean let's talk about their ventures
just as we do the Ventures of their much
younger counterparts the older
entrepreneurs in this country have a 70%
success rate starting new ventures 70%
success rate
we're like the Golden State Warriors of
entrepreneurs and that number plummets
to 28% for younger entrepreneurs this is
according to a uk-based group called CMI
aren't the accomplishments of a 70 year
old entrepreneur every bit as meaningful
every bit as newsworthy as the
accomplishments of a 30 year old
entrepreneur of course they are
that's why I'd like to make the phrase
70 over 70 just as just as commonplace
as the phrase 30 under 30 thank you
[Applause]